The Legacy Monolith
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Although most enterprises believe that the cloud will be the new home for legacy applications, not all legacy applications are a fit for the cloud, at least not yet.

Moving an application to the cloud should be as easy as walking on the beach and collecting pebbles in a bucket and easily carry them wherever needed. A 1000-ton boulder, on the other hand, is not easy to carry at all. This boulder represents the monolith application - sedimented layers of features and redundant logic translated into thousands of lines of code, written in a single, not so modern programming language, based on outdated software architecture patterns and principles.

In time, the new features and improvements added to code complexity, making development more challenging - loading, compiling, and building times increase with every new update. However, there is some ease in administration as the application is running on a single server, ideally a Virtual Machine or a Mainframe.

A monolith has a rather expensive taste in hardware. Being a large, single piece of software which continuously grows, it has to run on a single system which has to satisfy its compute, memory, storage, and networking requirements. The hardware of such capacity is not only complex and extremely pricey, but at times challenging to procure.

Since the entire monolith application runs as a single process, the scaling of individual features of the monolith is almost impossible. It internally supports a hardcoded number of connections and operations. However, scaling the entire application can be achieved by manually deploying a new instance of the monolith on another server, typically behind a load balancing appliance - another pricey solution.

During upgrades, patches or migrations of the monolith application downtime is inevitable and maintenance windows have to be planned well in advance as disruptions in service are expected to impact clients. While there are third party solutions to minimize downtime to customers by setting up monolith applications in a highly available active/passive configuration, they introduce new challenges for system engineers to keep all systems at the same patch level and may introduce new possible licensing costs.

